Now we've got some links coming back to us
and we've sort of gone through the basics.
Let's talk a little bit about how
search engines work internally.
So at least at a basic level,
the underlying assumption of how search
engines work is that your quality and
your importance is proportional to
the number of sites linking to you.
And if you're an important site,
your links are worth more in terms of
boosting the importance of other sites.
And the corollary to this is also,
if you frequently link to other sites,
your links are worth less
as influenced boosters,
compared to important sites
that hardly ever link at all.
So a good example here
is we'll talk about,
one way you can use Wikipedia
is to kind of submit edits.
Appropriate edits that will link back to
your business if you're the authoritative
source on a particular
piece of information.
That's a very important site, Wikipedia
shows up as the first result for many,
many search queries, however,
it links out to other sites like crazy.
A counter example to this would be,
if whitehouse.gov links to your site.
They may hardly ever link to sites
outside of their own domain.
And so that rare occurrence,
it's almost like an endorsement.
And that could boost your SEO
ranking tremendously overnight
when that sort of rare event happens.
So you sort of end up having
some amount of importance and
then diluting the effect of
your ability to link outwards
proportional to the number
of outgoing links you have.
So over here, we have a diagram
that relates to Google's Page Rank
algorithm, which was sort of
Larry Page's big idea that helped
Google start its path to
emerging as a search giant here.
And what I want you to see is that.
If we look at the red circle here, which
is B, a lot of things linked to it, and
that's what's driving its importance.
The purple circles at the bottom,
like almost nothing links to that or
nothing in this case.
So they're very sort of
unimportant low quality pages.
But they serve to sort of
collectively inflate B's importance.
And then as a consequence of B being
important, it only takes the one link to C
to elevate C up to being
a very important site, right?
Because it's not linking out much,
it only has one outgoing link.
And it's giving all of that influence
to C and so C gets inflated a lot.
So in terms of when we
talk about link building,
the really sweet opportunities
would be people who
very infrequently lend
their social proof and
lend their credibility
to other businesses.
If you can tap into that, that will
boost your reputation up substantially.
And you can see here, there's an equation
that goes along with PageRank.
So these numbers represent some math that,
at least at the time that Google was
founded was correct and
it's evolved since then.
But you can see that it's
like a 30x difference here,
it is not a subtle difference,
it's not like it's twice as good.
It is dramatically better
to have these high impact
sites that infrequently
lend their credibility out,
citing you, that's a sweet spot, yes.
>> So is it better then for
your own business to
sort of hoard the links you send out?
Is it better to be like B and
just give out one link
to one person as opposed to
sharing with multiple people?
>> That's a good question.
So if we think of ourselves
as being B here, right?
And we're really only caring
about our radius here.
Unless your business is offering
your influence to people,
that's not the main focus of
what you're trying to do there.
So you could hoard it and then you have
something that's worth something and
you could share it out.
However, if B didn't link out or
if it linked out all the time,
that doesn't diminish its own importance.
That just diminishes its ability to
transfer its credibility to someone else.
Does that make sense?
>> Yeah, that makes sense?
Yep, so it doesn't necessarily inflate
your own power to not link out.
It's how valuable you are to others.
>> It is how valuable to others,
which I guess in some senses,
that sort of is, in some ways,
your own power, right?
So I know that there
are some tech bloggers that
sort of infrequently endorse
another person's idea.
And when you come across an endorsement,
you look at that and you say,
wow, I don't see that often.
I'm gonna listen to this.
>> It's also surprising on large
sites in particular, if they link
to their own pages, their own resources,
they're passing SEO between pages, right?
The link text,
the search engines really like the link
text used to link to internal pages.
>> So linking to your own pages helps make
your topology a little bit more enriched.
I don't know,
specifically talking about PageRank.
I don't think internal
links are even evaluated.
However, if you had two businesses, so
I do consulting with LinkedIn, if LinkedIn
and Lynda are linking to each other, those
are two separate entities in the eyes,-
>> And Microsoft.
>> And Microsoft, right?
>> They can share between each others
domains by linking to each other.
>> Yes, right, and
they all actually have,-
>> And Microsoft has a ton of
different domains and different products
and they can interlink between those.
>> They can, but they're effectively
in doing so spreading out their value,
and it's better to have one huge
single point of influence on
a really nice topic than to
spread everything out over.
>> Yeah, that's why we moved Frontend and
.com under frontendmasters.com, so.
>> Good move.
We have a question online.
>> Yep, Nikita Kay asked,
if there's a way to see PageRank,
maybe you'll talk about
this at some point.
She's asking about tools for
seeing something like that.
>> So you can see your PageRank by
installing some Chrome extensions.
And if you search for PageRank,
there will be a bunch of them that,
I think Google has one, they used to
have something called Google Toolbar.
I'm not sure if that's still maintained.
The thing that I would
caution people on is,
it's like watching your stocks every hour.
You just wanna focus on things that
are known to drive PageRank up and
watching it every day and
keeping tabs on it.
That's not really gonna help
you move your mobile forward,
especially if you're a new startup, and
there are other established players in the
space, they're going to be ahead of you.
And there's really nothing you
can do except let time pass and
let people start visiting your site.
It's a long term effort.
So you can see your Page Rank.
But I don't find that that is
something that I frequently focus on.
I just know that this is
the theory of how things work.
And this is why you want
people to link to your site.
The thing I'm more
focused on is looking at
the inbound versus outbound links
on sites that can refer to me.
So I wanna be able to tell A versus B and
C.
So I can know, well,
let's go out to lunch with B and
see if I can write a guest
blog post on their site.
Cuz I want that 30x multiplier.
>> So
just if I can focus that in a little bit.
>> Yep.
>> So
the algorithm is a black box essentially.
So you don't necessarily know
how to weigh different measures.
>> Yes.
>> You're just trying to take
a scan of the field of what sites
are influential and
measure that against your PageRank.
>> Exactly, so
the algorithm is a blackbox.
We do know with certainty that certain
factors have a proportional versus
an exponential effect on how you
show up in organic search results.
And this is actually not a blackbox.
This was Larry Page's,
I think it was his PhD thesis.
And so this was published, and
it represented the first
iteration of the search algorithm.
And since then, we don't really know
what direction it's evolved in.
But the same principles have
served that business well.